# LSST Vault Utilities

This package is a set of Vault utilities useful for the LSST use case.

## LSST Vault Hierarchy

These tools are intended to work with a specific taxonomic hierarchy,
detailed below.

### Secrets

The primary use case for the LSST vault has been to act as a repository
for Kubernetes secrets.  Those are organized as follows:

`secret/k8s_operator/:instance:`

These secrets are typically created and injected at cluster creation
time; in the case of the LSP deployment, this is scripted.

The secondary, more flexible, use case is to use the LSST vault as a
generalized key-value store.

The current plan is for the LSST vault to be organized with secrets
under `secret` as follows:

`secret/:subsystem:/:team:/:category:/:instance:`

As an example, secrets for the `nublado.lsst.codes` instance of
the LSST Science Platform Notebook Aspect are stored in
`secret/dm/square/nublado/nublado.lsst.codes`.  Underneath that
there are `hub`, `proxy`, and `tls` secret folders, each of which has a
number of individual secrets,
e.g. `secret/dm/square/nublado/nublado.lsst.codes/hub/oauth_secret`.

Note that these secrets are *not* accessible to the administrative user
that created the token pair and policies.  They are accessed through one
of those tokens.

We assume that each secret has its own folder, whose name is the secret
key, inside of which the keyname is `value`.  This makes translating
back and forth between Vault secrets and Kubernetes secrets (which have
multiple key-value pairs) much easier.

### Tokens

The first thing to do, with an administrative token, is to create a
delegator token which will be the token used to run the Vault token
provisioning tools.  Use [delegator.hcl](delegator.hcl) as the input to
create a policy for this.  Then create a token with that new delegator
policy attached.

Token IDs and accessors are stored under
`secret/delegated/:subsystem:/:team:/:category:/:instance:/:role:/:type:`
where `role` is one of `read` or `write` and `type` is one of `id` or
`accessor`.  These secrets are only accessible to an administrative user
(such as the one that created the token pair in the first place, which
should be the token attached to the `delegator` policy created
above).

There are two tokens for each path, comprising the "token pair".  These
are `read` and `write`.

It is our intention that a runtime system have access to the `read`
token to be able to read (but not update) secrets, and that the
administrators of such a system have access to the `write` token to
create, update, and remove secrets.  We have provided a tool that allows
easy copying of Kubernetes secrets to and from Vault.

### Policies

Policies are stored as
`delegated/:subsystem:/:team:/:category:/:instance:/:role:` where role
is one of `read` or `write`.  The administrative user that
creates or revokes the token pair is also responsible for creating and
destroying these policies.

## Classes

The package name is `lsstvaultutils`.  Its functional classes are:

1. `SecretCopier` -- this copies secrets between the current Kubernetes
   context and a Vault instance.
   
2. `AdminTool` -- this highly LSST-specific class allows you to specify a
   path under the Vault secret store, and it will generate two tokens
   (read and write) for manipulating secrets under the path.  It
   stores those under secret/delegated, so that an admin can find (and,
   if need be, revoke) them later.  It also manages revoking those
   tokens and removing them from the secret/delegated path.  Options
   exist to, if manipulating tokens on a path that already exist, revoke
   the old tokens and overwrite with new ones, or to remove the secret
   data at the same time as the tokens are revoked.  There is also a
   function to display the IDs and accessors of the token pair
   associated with the path.
   
3. `RecursiveDeleter` -- this adds a recursive deletion feature to Vault
   for removing a whole secret tree at a time.
   
There is also a TimeFormatter class that exists only to add milliseconds
to the debugging logs.  There is a convenience function, `getLogger`,
that provides an interface to get a standardized logger for these tools and
classes.

## Programs

The major functionality of these classes is also exposed as standalone
programs.

1. `copyk2v` -- copy the contents of a  Kubernetes secret to a Vault
   secret path.

2. `copyv2k` -- copy a set of Vault secrets at a specified path to a
   Kubernetes secret.
   
3. `tokenadmin` -- Create or revoke token sets for a given Vault secret
   path, or display the token IDs and accessors for that path.
   
4. `vaultrmrf` -- Remove a Vault secret path and everything underneath
   it.  As is implied by the name, this is a fairly dangerous operation.

## Example Workflow

We will go through a workflow that exercises all of the standalone
programs, by creating a token pair, creating some secrets, copying the
secrets from Vault to Kubernetes and back again, deleting a secret tree,
and finally deleting the token pair.

### Create a token pair.

First we'll create a token pair for a hierarchy at `dm/test`.  (Note
that we have omitted a level of hierarchy to make the output slightly
more readable; `dm/square/test` would be more realistic.)  We ensure
that `VAULT_ADDR` and `VAULT_CAPATH` are set correctly, and that
`VAULT_TOKEN` is set to an appropriate administrative token.  We're
going to use `debug` to get an idea of what's going on during the
process, and we will use the `display` option to print JSON representing
the tokens.

I am using a `vaultutils` virtualenv with the `lsstvaultutils` package
installed, and the `vault` CLI is on my path.

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ tokenadmin create --debug --display dm/test
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.625 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.625 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Getting Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.939 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Vault Client is authenticated.
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.939 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating policies and tokens for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.939 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating policies for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:52.939 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Checking for existence of policy 'delegated/dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:53.109 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating policy for 'dm/test/read'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:53.109 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Policy string:  path "secret/data/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["read"]
     }
     path "secret/metadata/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["read","list"]
     }

    2019-03-04 14:45:53.109 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Policy path: delegated/dm/test/read
    2019-03-04 14:45:53.535 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating policy for 'dm/test/write'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:53.535 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Policy string:  path "secret/data/dm/test" {
       capabilities = ["read", "create", "update", "delete"]
     }
     path "secret/data/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["read", "create", "update", "delete"]
     }
     path "secret/metadata/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["list", "read", "update","delete"]
     }
     path "secret/metadata/dm/test" {
       capabilities = ["list", "read", "update","delete"]
     }
     path "secret/delete/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["update"]
     }
     path "secret/undelete/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["update"]
     }
     path "secret/destroy/dm/test/*" {
       capabilities = ["update"]
     }

    2019-03-04 14:45:53.535 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Policy path: delegated/dm/test/write
    2019-03-04 14:45:54.217 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating token for 'dm/test/read'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:54.217 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin |  - policies '['delegated/dm/test/read']'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:55.630 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Writing token store for 'dm/test/read'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:55.630 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin |  'delegated/dm/test/read' -> 's.3nyTeqdWiINKIKNtuoIDtD9D'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:56.840 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Creating token for 'dm/test/write'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:56.840 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin |  - policies '['delegated/dm/test/write']'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:58.171 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Writing token store for 'dm/test/write'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:58.171 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin |  'delegated/dm/test/write' -> 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 14:45:59.335 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Getting tokens for 'dm/test'.
    {
        "dm/test": {
            "read": {
                "accessor": "1WRccTQEebkqx78t37EyVztK",
                "id": "s.3nyTeqdWiINKIKNtuoIDtD9D"
            },
            "write": {
                "accessor": "8LvOhKiGFJf9qYNIgOXrb8Ik",
                "id": "s.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD"
            }
        }
    }


### Add some secrets

First, set Vault to use the `write` token:

`export VAULT_TOKEN="s.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD"`

I like JSON output, so I'm going to set:

`export VAULT_FORMAT=json`

Then use the vault client to add some secrets:


	(vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv put secret/dm/test/group1/foo value=bar
    {
      "request_id": "0a814bd2-e95d-cf1c-9018-c00173668e3d",
      "lease_id": "",
      "lease_duration": 0,
      "renewable": false,
      "data": {
        "created_time": "2019-03-04T21:51:07.616034224Z",
        "deletion_time": "",
        "destroyed": false,
        "version": 1
      },
      "warnings": null
    }
    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv put secret/dm/test/group1/baz value=quux
    {
      "request_id": "38c65e0d-735d-db9a-c2d6-840bdd4dff65",
      "lease_id": "",
      "lease_duration": 0,
      "renewable": false,
      "data": {
        "created_time": "2019-03-04T21:51:34.991913644Z",
        "deletion_time": "",
        "destroyed": false,
        "version": 1
      },
      "warnings": null
    }
    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv put secret/dm/test/group2/king value=fink
    {
      "request_id": "12753857-25f2-a27a-3d65-badc18805d07",
      "lease_id": "",
      "lease_duration": 0,
      "renewable": false,
      "data": {
        "created_time": "2019-03-04T21:51:45.645224365Z",
        "deletion_time": "",
        "destroyed": false,
        "version": 1
      },
      "warnings": null
    }

Read one back:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv get secret/dm/test/group1/baz
    {
      "request_id": "03ef8ba1-3eb2-2962-d4c6-ebaf595e3387",
      "lease_id": "",
      "lease_duration": 0,
      "renewable": false,
      "data": {
        "data": {
          "value": "quux"
        },
        "metadata": {
          "created_time": "2019-03-04T21:51:34.991913644Z",
          "deletion_time": "",
          "destroyed": false,
          "version": 1
        }
      },
      "warnings": null
    }

### Copy secrets to Kubernetes

Now let's create Kubernetes secrets from these.  Do whatever you need to
do in order to get a current authenticated Kubernetes context.

Switch to the `read` token--we don't need to use a `write` token to copy
from Vault to Kubernetes.  The Kubernetes user must be able to create
secrets, of course, but that's got nothing to do with Vault tokens.

`export VAULT_TOKEN="s.3nyTeqdWiINKIKNtuoIDtD9D"`

Then we'll copy a set of secrets from Vault to Kubernetes:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ copyv2k --debug dm/test/group1 testg1
    2019-03-04 14:54:52.855 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 14:54:52.855 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Acquiring Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.117 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Acquiring k8s client.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.249 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Reading secret from 'dm/test/group1'.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.378 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | 'dm/test/group1' is a set of values.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.692 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Determining whether secret 'testg1'exists in namespace 'nublado'.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.971 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Secret found.
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.971 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Base64-encoding secret data
    2019-03-04 14:54:53.971 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.secretcopier | Updating secret.

Repeat the process for the second group; we'll omit --debug this time.

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ copyv2k dm/test/group2 testg2
    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$

Now let's see if the copy worked.

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ kubectl get secret -o yaml testg2
    apiVersion: v1
    data:
      king: Zmluaw==
    kind: Secret
    metadata:
      creationTimestamp: 2019-03-04T21:55:47Z
      name: testg2
      namespace: nublado
      resourceVersion: "10389477"
      selfLink: /api/v1/namespaces/nublado/secrets/testg2
      uid: 445509ca-3ec8-11e9-a1ce-42010a800032
    type: Opaque

Decode that secret:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:/tmp$ echo -n Zmluaw== | base64 -D -
    fink

### Copy secret from Kubernetes to Vault

Go back to the "write" token:

    export VAULT_TOKEN="s.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD"

Copy the secret to a new Vault path:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ copyk2v testg1 dm/test/copy1
    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$

Read a value (we _could_ switch to the Vault `read` token, but we don't
have to--`write` is also allowed to read) back:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:/tmp$ vault kv get secret/dm/square/copy1/foo
	{
      "request_id": "7a509ffc-eaf6-ee43-0d6b-d6bc4fe08a8b",
      "lease_id": "",
      "lease_duration": 0,
      "renewable": false,
      "data": {
        "data": {
          "value": "bar"
        },
        "metadata": {
          "created_time": "2019-03-04T22:01:57.690906156Z",
          "deletion_time": "",
          "destroyed": false,
          "version": 1
        }
      },
      "warnings": null
    }


### Recursively remove a secret tree

Let's say we didn't really want to do that last copy.  We can easily
remove the tree.

Then we can use the `vaultrmrf` command (and the write token) to delete
the tree.

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vaultrmrf --debug dm/test/copy1
    2019-03-04 15:05:47.920 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 15:05:47.920 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Acquiring Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.164 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.269 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'dm/test/copy1'
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.269 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': 'f6774de1-cb8c-76ed-8425-7963b5d95d76', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['baz', 'foo']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.269 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1/baz' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.369 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1/baz' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.369 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.703 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1/foo' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.809 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1/foo' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:05:48.809 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:05:49.123 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/copy1' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:05:49.123 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.


Trying to read the secret now will show it's gone:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv get secret/dm/test/copy1/foo
    No value found at secret/data/dm/test/copy1/foo

### Revoke Token Pair and remove data

Now we will clean up:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ kubectl delete secret testg1 testg2
    secret "testg1" deleted
    secret "testg2" deleted

We go back to an administrative token to revoke our token pair (by
setting `VAULT_TOKEN` to an appropriate value), and while we're at it we
will clean up the data we inserted into vault as well.

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ tokenadmin revoke --delete-data --debug dm/test2019-03-04 15:08:12.888 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 15:08:12.888 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Getting Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.147 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Vault Client is authenticated.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.147 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Revoking tokens and removing policies for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.147 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Getting write token for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.147 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Reading value from 'delegated/dm/test/write/id'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.208 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Got data: {'request_id': 'e5084c92-f404-7338-f776-47f1d8ee5980', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'data': {'value': 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'}, 'metadata': {'created_time': '2019-03-04T21:45:58.325211493Z', 'deletion_time': '', 'destroyed': False, 'version': 1}}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.208 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.208 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Acquiring Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.498 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting data under 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.498 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.638 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'dm/test'
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.638 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '661160b2-6916-62f5-ae29-8da0d576d841', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['group1/', 'group2/']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.638 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.907 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'dm/test/group1'
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.907 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '02e65063-64e2-8ca9-1532-f3aaf1eaeeb5', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['baz', 'foo']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:13.908 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1/baz' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:14.262 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1/baz' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:14.262 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:14.729 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1/foo' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:14.906 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1/foo' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:14.906 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.409 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group1' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.409 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.560 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group2' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.716 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'dm/test/group2'
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.716 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '9a9f23d3-f5cf-10c7-e18c-2f54a848e3e7', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['king']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.716 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group2/king' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.866 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group2/king' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:15.866 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.480 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test/group2' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.480 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.623 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'dm/test' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.623 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.765 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Requesting ID for 'read' token for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.826 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Tokendata: {'request_id': '845ca454-5b0e-9518-9029-bf221c771e4f', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'data': {'value': 's.3nyTeqdWiINKIKNtuoIDtD9D'}, 'metadata': {'created_time': '2019-03-04T21:45:55.802574394Z', 'deletion_time': '', 'destroyed': False, 'version': 1}}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}
    2019-03-04 15:08:16.827 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting 'read' token for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:18.393 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Requesting ID for 'write' token for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:18.454 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Tokendata: {'request_id': '5f3aae99-59f4-618b-cf1c-cb9bc3b39478', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'data': {'value': 's.4l4eDdLMyD436RsjRqlI11cD'}, 'metadata': {'created_time': '2019-03-04T21:45:58.325211493Z', 'deletion_time': '', 'destroyed': False, 'version': 1}}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}
    2019-03-04 15:08:18.455 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting 'write' token for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:19.845 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting token store for 'dm/test'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:19.846 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 15:08:19.846 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Debug logging started.
    2019-03-04 15:08:19.846 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Acquiring Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:19.846 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Acquiring Vault client for 'https://35.184.246.111'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.085 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Recursive delete of: 'delegated/dm/test'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.085 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.085 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '5c1f33cf-8878-a5c8-a884-1f5cda607fa6', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['read/', 'write/']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '5c1f33cf-8878-a5c8-a884-1f5cda607fa6', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['read/', 'write/']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.199 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test/read'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test/read'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '4d18f739-1ee7-c413-6b9a-1766f6f300de', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['accessor', 'id']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '4d18f739-1ee7-c413-6b9a-1766f6f300de', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['accessor', 'id']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/accessor' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.317 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/accessor' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.422 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/accessor' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.422 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/accessor' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.422 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.422 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.856 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/id' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.856 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/id' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.971 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/id' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.971 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read/id' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.972 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:20.972 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.406 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.406 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/read' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.406 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.406 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.492 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.492 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test/write'
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing tree rooted at 'delegated/dm/test/write'
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '8446aa1b-3d86-3b0d-eb55-01a9fe0e1cad', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['accessor', 'id']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | resp = '{'request_id': '8446aa1b-3d86-3b0d-eb55-01a9fe0e1cad', 'lease_id': '', 'renewable': False, 'lease_duration': 0, 'data': {'keys': ['accessor', 'id']}, 'wrap_info': None, 'warnings': None, 'auth': None}'
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/accessor' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.603 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/accessor' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.707 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/accessor' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.707 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/accessor' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.708 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:21.708 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.120 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/id' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.120 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/id' recursively.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.224 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/id' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.224 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write/id' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.224 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.224 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.673 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.673 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test/write' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.673 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.673 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.761 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.761 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Removing 'delegated/dm/test' as leaf node.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.761 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.761 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.recursivedeleter | Using token 's.86o9UFmo4bbd4yxs1pWHS2Z1'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:22.856 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting policy for 'delegated/dm/test/read'.
    2019-03-04 15:08:23.039 MST(-0700) [DEBUG] lsstvaultutils.tokenadmin | Deleting policy for 'delegated/dm/test/write'.

And now the system is back in the state in which we started.

### Verifying token deletion

We can try an operation to see that the tokens have been revoked.  Set
up the (now-revoked) read token: `export
VAULT_TOKEN="s.3nyTeqdWiINKIKNtuoIDtD9D"`.  Then try the same read we
previously ran again:

    (vaultutils) adam@ixitxachitl:~$ vault kv get secret/dm/test/group1/baz
    Error making API request.

    URL: GET https://35.184.246.111/v1/sys/internal/ui/mounts/secret/dm/test/group1/baz
    Code: 403. Errors:

    * permission denied
