MANIFEST.in
README.md
setup.py
dkbirdisland/__init__.py
dkbirdisland/__main__.py
dkbirdisland.egg-info/PKG-INFO
dkbirdisland.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
dkbirdisland.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
dkbirdisland.egg-info/entry_points.txt
dkbirdisland.egg-info/requires.txt
dkbirdisland.egg-info/top_level.txt
dkbirdisland/fonts/ARCADEPI.ttf
dkbirdisland/images/background.png
dkbirdisland/images/barril.png
dkbirdisland/images/barris.png
dkbirdisland/images/game_over.png
dkbirdisland/images/ground.fw.png
dkbirdisland/images/icon.png
dkbirdisland/images/menu.png
dkbirdisland/images/mouse.png
dkbirdisland/images/original.png
dkbirdisland/images/press.png
dkbirdisland/images/retry.png
dkbirdisland/images/snake1.png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/GreenBird (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/GreenBird (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/GreenBird (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/GreenBird (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (5).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (6).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (7).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Happy (8).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Jump (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Jump (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Jump (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Jump (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Jump (5).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Not (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Not (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Not (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Not (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Not (5).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/RedBird (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/RedBird (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/RedBird (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/RedBird (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Vulture (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Vulture (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Vulture (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Vulture (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (1).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (2).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (3).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (4).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (5).png
dkbirdisland/images/animations/Walk (6).png
dkbirdisland/sounds/game_music.ogg
dkbirdisland/sounds/gameover_music.ogg
dkbirdisland/sounds/impact.wav
dkbirdisland/sounds/jump_sound.wav
dkbirdisland/sounds/menu_music.ogg
dkbirdisland/sounds/nostalgic.ogg
dkbirdisland/src/__init__.py
dkbirdisland/src/donkey.py
dkbirdisland/src/game.py
dkbirdisland/src/ground.py
dkbirdisland/src/menus.py
dkbirdisland/src/obstacles.py
dkbirdisland/src/scoreboard.py
dkbirdisland/src/tools.py